Add cheatsheet for migrating `sx` React styling to CSS Variables (#759)
primer/design: content/foundations/primitives/migrating.mdx

---
title: Migrating to CSS variables
description:
  Quick references for migrating from old Primer styling systems to new CSS variable primitives
---

## Migrating from `sx` props (Primer React)

### Spacing

> [!CAUTION]
> If a the only available primitive is a `--base-size` primitive, this is likely not a good value for that spacing use case. For now you could use the plain pixel or `rem` value but ideally you'd adjust the design or styling approach. `--base-size` is primarily for dimensions.

#### Stacks

> [Stacks](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#stack) are boxes containing flow content; typically vertical. These are usually `display: flex` or `grid` or `block`.

Author: They are typically vertical, right? Otherwise it's hard to find the line between `control-stack` and regular `stack` values when migrating. I can't think of very many horizontal stack cases.

> [Stacks](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#stack) are boxes containing flow content; typically vertical. These are usually `display: flex` or `grid` or `block`.

Author: ah okay, cool :+1:

> [Stacks](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#stack) are boxes containing flow content; typically vertical. These are usually `display: flex` or `grid` or `block`.

Author: ```suggestion
[Stacks](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#stack) are boxes containing flow content in a vertical or horizontal layout. These are usually `display: flex` or `grid` or `block`.
```

> [!NOTE]
> The **size** of the control stack depends on the size of the controls inside of it. For example, a stack containing `<IconButton size="small">` is a `small` stack.

##### Control stack padding / margin

Use the same padding and margin values as for a vertical Stack.

##### Control stack content spacing

The `gap` property in `flex` layouts, or item `margin` in older layouts.

`sx` keyword | resolved value | primitive
--- | --- | ---
`0` | 0px | `0`
`1` | 4px | `--base-size-4`
`2` | 8px | `--controlStack-small-gap-condensed` <br /> `--controlStack-medium-gap-condensed` <br /> `--controlStack-large-gap-condensed`
`3` | 16px | `--controlStack-small-gap-spacious` <br /> `--controlStack-medium-gap-spacious` <br /> `--controlStack-large-gap-spacious`
`4` | 24px | `--base-size-24`
`5` | 32px | `--base-size-32`
`6` | 40px | `--base-size-40`
`7` | 48px | `--base-size-48`
`8` | 64px | `--base-size-64`
`9` | 80px | `--base-size-80`
`10` | 96px | `--base-size-96`
`11` | 112px | `--base-size-112`
`12` | 128px | `--base-size-128`

#### Controls

[Controls](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#controls) are `Button`s, `Label`s, etc -- small building block elements.

> These values must be resolved on a case-by-case basis because they are different for each size of control, each density level, and for the top/bottom vs the sides. See [the primitives list](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#controls) to find a good value or just use `--base-size` values for now.

Author: There are quite a few interactive controls built internally (recipes) that need to be migrated to CSS modules, so I feel like this is worth mentioning to help update those. Also I think there are many cases where we've needed to adjust spacing of Primer controls to fix specific scenarios, and these adjustments should ideally be done using the `control` primitives as well.

##### Body text

`sx` keyword | resolved value | primitive
--- | --- | ---
`0` | 12px | `--text-body-size-small`
`1` | 14px | `--text-body-size-medium`
`2` | 16px | `--text-body-size-large`
`3` | 20px | `--base-size-20`
`4` | 24px | `--base-size-24`
`5` | 32px | `--base-size-32`
`6` | 40px | `--base-size-40`
`7` | 48px | `--base-size-48`
`8` | 56px | `--base-size-56`

#### Font family

`sx` keyword  | primitive
--- | ---
`normal` | `--fontStack-system` or explicitly `--fontStack-sansSerif`
`mono`  | `--fontStack-monospace`

### Borders

#### Border color

See: Colors > Border

#### Border width

Prefer these primitives instead of previously used numbers or plain pixel values:

`sx` keyword | resolved value | primitive
--- | --- | ---
`0` | 0px | `0`
`1` | 1px | `--borderWidth-thin`
| | 2px | `--borderWidth-thick`
| | 3px | `--borderWidth-thicker`

#### Border radius

`sx` keyword | resolved value | primitive
--- | --- | ---
`0` | 0px | `0`
`1` | 3px | `--borderRadius-small`
`2` | 6px | `--borderRadius-medium`
| | 12px | `--borderRadius-large`
`3` | a lot | `--borderRadius-full`

### Sizes and Breakpoints

These are typically used for breakpoints, heights and widths.

> > [!NOTE]
> > For overlays (like dialogs), prefer the [new overlay primitives](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#overlay). These sizes are not a 1:1 mapping with the old keywords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note variant="info">
 For overlays (like dialogs), prefer the [new overlay primitives](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#overlay). These sizes are not a 1:1 mapping with the old keywords.
</Note>
```

> > [!NOTE]
> > CSS variables cannot be used in `@media` or `@container` query expressions. The plain pixel value must be used instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note variant="info">
  CSS variables cannot be used in `@media` or `@container` query expressions. The plain pixel value must be used instead. Stay tuned for future media query support.
</Note>
```

</Note>

See padding values above; there are no `margin` primitives.

##### Stack content spacing

This is typically the CSS `gap` in `flex` (with `flex-direction: column`) or `grid` layouts. Could also be the `margin` between items that have not been updated to flexbox/grid.

`sx` keyword | resolved value | primitive
--- | --- | ---
`0` | 0px | `0`
`1` | 4px | `--base-size-4`
`2` | 8px | `--stack-gap-condensed`
`3` | 16px | `--stack-gap-normal`
`4` | 24px | `--stack-gap-spacious`
`5` | 32px | `--base-size-32`
`6` | 40px | `--base-size-40`
`7` | 48px | `--base-size-48`
`8` | 64px | `--base-size-64`
`9` | 80px | `--base-size-80`
`10` | 96px | `--base-size-96`
`11` | 112px | `--base-size-112`
`12` | 128px | `--base-size-128`

#### Control stacks

[Control stacks](https://primer.style/foundations/primitives/size#controls) are horizontal (inline) rows containing inline interactive items next to each other. For example, a set of buttons or labels. These are usually `display: flex` or `inline-flex` with `flex-direction: row`.

<Note variant="info">

>  The size of the control stack depends on the size of the controls inside of it. For example, a stack containing `<IconButton size="small">` is a `small` stack.

Author: ```suggestion
 The size of the control stack depends on the size of the controls inside of it. For example, a stack containing a <code>small</code> icon button is a 'small' stack.
```
